feat: migrates viewing and finding users (#106)
posit-dev/connect-cookbook: 02-users/02-finding-users/index.qmd

╞═════════════════════════════════╪══════════╪═════════════════╪════════════╪═══╪══════════════════════╪══════════════════════╪═══════════╪════════╡
│ c6440668-15d0-4343-b3c8-18755c… ┆ admin    ┆ admin@posit.co  ┆ John       ┆ … ┆ 2018-07-10T21:26:57Z ┆ 2018-07-17T15:18:26Z ┆ true      ┆ false  │
│ afeb15e7-274f-4981-a6d3-677cc3… ┆ hadley   ┆ hadley@posit.co ┆ Hadley     ┆ … ┆ 2024-06-18T13:25:27Z ┆ 2024-06-18T13:25:27Z ┆ true      ┆ false  │
└─────────────────────────────────┴──────────┴─────────────────┴────────────┴───┴──────────────────────┴──────────────────────┴───────────┴────────┘
```

## R

```r
library(connectapi)
client <- connect()

users <- get_users(client)
```

```r
> users
users[1,]
# A tibble: 2 × 11
  email               username   first_name last_name user_role created_time
  <chr>               <chr>      <chr>      <chr>     <chr>     <dttm>
1 admin@rstudio.com   admin      John       Admin     admin     2018-07-10 04:52:04
2 hadley@posit.co     hadley     Hadley     Wickham   publisher 2015-05-20 19:44:37
# ℹ 5 more variables: updated_time <dttm>, active_time <dttm>, confirmed <lgl>,
#   locked
```

:::

## Discussion

> These methods provide an effective way to search for users when you do not know the users unique identifier (guid).

Reviewer: This sentence kinda implies that you can search for users by GUID, but I don't see that mentioned elsewhere in these articles. Either should remove it from here or give an example of it.

> There are additional parameter that you can use to filter the resulting users set.
> 
> You can use the `prefix` parameter to find users by username, first name, or last name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `prefix` parameter to search for users with a username, first name, or last name matching the provided string.
```

---
title: "Finding users"
---

## Problem

You want to find users.

## Solution

::: {.panel-tabset group="language"}

## Python

> Use the `users.find` and `users.find_one` methods to find users using various criteria.

Reviewer: What criteria can we search on? I think this is an important enough part of the solution to include in the prose, and to show an example of in the code.

│ afeb15e7-274f-4981-a6d3-677cc3… ┆ hadley   ┆ hadley@posit.co ┆ Hadley     ┆ … ┆ 2024-06-18T13:25:27Z ┆ 2024-06-18T13:25:27Z ┆ true      ┆ false  │
└─────────────────────────────────┴──────────┴─────────────────┴────────────┴───┴──────────────────────┴──────────────────────┴───────────┴────────┘
```

## R

```{.r}
library(connectapi)
client <- connect()

users <- get_users(client)
```

### Example Output

```{.r}
> users
users[1,]
# A tibble: 2 × 11
  email               username   first_name last_name user_role created_time
  <chr>               <chr>      <chr>      <chr>     <chr>     <dttm>
1 admin@rstudio.com   admin      John       Admin     admin     2018-07-10 04:52:04
2 hadley@posit.co     hadley     Hadley     Wickham   publisher 2015-05-20 19:44:37
# ℹ 5 more variables: updated_time <dttm>, active_time <dttm>, confirmed <lgl>,
#   locked
```

:::

## Discussion

These methods provide an effective way to search for users when you do not know the users unique identifier (guid).

There are additional parameter that you can use to filter the resulting users set.

> You can use the `prefix` parameter to find users by username, first name, or last name.

Reviewer: My gut impulse is that this sort of information should go under the "solution", as it's kind of core information about the workflows.

Author: Yeah, I've been leaning on examples like these: https://rc2e.com/datastructures#recipe-id062

Which seems to keep the solution short and sweet. Then go into more detail about using the function in the discussion.

Reviewer: Cool! I'm down with that approach.
